# blupimania(6) -- a mind boggling (brain twisting) game of logic

## SYNOPSIS

`blupimania` [<optional>...]

## DESCRIPTION

Blupi comes out of a hole holding on to a balloon. Unfortunately he lets it
blow away. Blupi is lost, he turns to the left or the right and does various
unpredictable things of his own. The object of the game is to help him find
another balloon, so that he can move on to the next riddle. Blupimania offers
the option of creating your own riddles in level 5.

There are more than 120 riddles in the game grouped in four different levels
according to their difficulty. You have to solve one riddle to be able to move
onto the next, but you can always change levels.

**Blupi has no antenna**

In this phase you have to direct one or more independent Blupi, by modifying the
décor, e.g. by placing a fence to prevent Blupi from falling down a hole.

**Blupi has an antenna**

In this mode Blupi can be remote controlled. There may also be other independent
Blupi moving around the screen. They too must be helped, as the riddle is not
solved until every Blupi has found a balloon! You have to modify the world
around them, e.g. to put a fence in place, you have to move the remote
controlled Blupi to the place you have chosen.

## CONFIGURATION

**Blupimania** supports at least GNU/Linux 3.2, macOS 10.13 and Microsoft
Windows Seven. If your OS is not listed, maybe it's possible to build yourself
the game. Most Unix and Unix-like OS should be supported.

For the sound card, any cards supported by ALSA, PulseAudio, macOS or
DirectSound should work fine.

## SCREEN

The game **Blupimania** runs in windowed mode. Of course you can decide to
change in fullscreen via the settings screen.

If the game cannot run, maybe you should try to start the game with the software
renderer. Start the game with the `--renderer software` command line option.

Another possibility exists. You can try to change the driver used by the
accelerated renderer. By default it uses `"direct3d"` on Windows, you can change
by `"opengl"` with `"driver": "opengl"` with the `--driver opengl` command line
option.

## DOCUMENTATION

A very complete documentation is available in game.

## KEYBOARD

- <kbd>Arrows</kbd>: Move Blupi or move the view

- <kbd>Spacebar</kbd>: Shows or hides items

- <kbd>F1</kbd>..<kbd>F4</kbd>: Places corresponding object from the icon
  palette in front of a radio-controlled Blupi

- <kbd>F5</kbd>: Turtle speed

- <kbd>F6</kbd>: Normal speed

- <kbd>F7</kbd>: Hare speed

- <kbd>F8</kbd>: Fast panorama ON/OFF

- <kbd>F9</kbd>: Save game

- <kbd>F10</kbd>: Recall game

- <kbd>F12</kbd>: Music ON/OFF

- <kbd>.</kbd>: Pause

When you switch to another application, the game is automatically paused.

## OPTIONS

- `-?`, `--help`: Print this help message and exit.

- `-V`, `--version`: Print version and exit.

- `-s`, `--speedrate`: Change the speed rate `[0;1;2]` (default: `1`).

- `-t`, `--timerinterval`: Set the timer interval (refresh). The default value
  is 50ms. This is an advanced option because it changes the main events loop
  frequency.

- `-f`, `--fullscreen`: Load in fullscreen `[on;off]` (default: `off`).

- `-z`, `--zoom`: Change the window scale (only if fullscreen is `off`) `[1;2]`
  (default: `2`).

- `-r`, `--renderer`: Set a renderer `[auto;software;accelerated]` (default:
  `auto`). Use the `software` renderer if the `accelerated` renderer is bugged.
  Note that you can try other drivers (option `-d`) before forcing the
  `software` renderer.

- `-d`, `--driver`: Set a driver
  `[auto;direct3d;direct3d11;opengl;opengles2;opengles]` (default: `auto`,
  ignored with `software` renderer).

## AUTHOR

**Blupimania** is an original creation of Epsitec SA.

https://www.blupi.org <info@blupi.org>

## COPYRIGHT

blupimania is Copyright (C) 1994-1996, Daniel Roux & EPSITEC SA and Copyright
(C) 2023, Mathieu Schroeter
